# Structuring program around student portfolios

## Situation

Students need to show their ability to potential hiring companies. The work they show needs to 
show their ability in job readiness that beats other candidates. Their portfolio of work is a 
concrete example of their ability. Student portfolios need to be top notch. 

## Background

The quality of portfolio projects is directly related to planning, preparation, and time spent 
developing those projects. Students don't seem to have much time to work or their time is broken 
into blocks that are too small for effective productivity during school hours.

Requiring students to spend time outside of school to keep up with projects is less than ideal. 
Working at home lacks faculty input, and the time is unstructered or not guaranteed. While 
people will argue they are more productive at home, and it may be the case, it's not guaranteed 
that a student will dedicate time regularly. Working at home deprives students of the opportunity 
to ask questions, and discuss problems with instructors, which slows progress. 

## Assessment

Product class leaves only a couple weeks spent on actual product development which doesn't produce 
polished portfolio projects. 

Lecture classes do not leave students enough time to produce work that will build portfolio 
worthy work. 

Structuring the program around more traditional (lecture, homework) education model might not go 
far enough or be a good fit for students who come in with a degree and want to do a finishing year.

Relying on students to create side projects on their own has questionable effectiveness. Students
have no accountability and little direction to assure their projects will be worthy of their 
portfolio.

## Recommendation

Restructure the program to look more like a work environment with less emphasis on traditional 
lecture classes and more emphasis on industry production flow with a goal of portfolio building. 

The first year for two year candidates should should be spent skill building on projects defined 
by Make School. 

One year students should define and develop a number of projects on their own or in a small 
groups with faculty direction. 

Students will be responsible to show up and work 9 to 5 PM. Class/Lecture is balanced with 
required work time. 

### How much time class/lecture vs work?

Faculty should identify projects that make good portfolio work and objectively determine how
many hours of work it might take a student to create. They should also detemrine how many 
projects a quarter/trimester a student should be responsible for.

This assessment should provide clearer picture what students should be producing and what we can 
ask them to do. 

Adding milestones to projects will allow faculty to assess student progress, and also allow 
students to self assess their progress. 
